# Polymer Interfaces
- Definition of **polymer**


## Notion of Polymer Size

Not great measures of size
- $R_{ee}$ **end-to-end distance**
- $R_g$ **radius of gyration**
- **contour length**
- Interface between polymers (typical size scale? What does it depend on? Entanglements? Interpenetration? typically 1-10 Units thick) ==Need clarification==. Units could be atoms or monomer units. 1 - 10 elements thick for interfaces.

## Properties Across Interfaces

- **Density of a polymer interface:** 1 - 10 $nm$ interface thickness ==cl==
- **glass transition temperature:** The glass transition temperature $(\mathrm{Tg})$ is the temperature at which an amorphous material, such as a polymer, transitions from a hard and relatively brittle "glassy" state into a softer, more pliable "rubbery" state. 
	- Below Tg, the molecular chains in the material are in a frozen, glassy state, limiting their mobility and making the material stiff and brittle. Above Tg, the thermal energy allows the polymer chains to gain enough mobility to move past each other, resulting in a material that is soft, flexible, and rubbery. The glass transition is not a sharp transition but rather a gradual change over a range of temperatures, and it is a key characteristic that influences the material's mechanical and thermal properties.
	- **Plot of glass transition temperature:** (volume vs temperature). Typical characteristics of plot. Where is glass region usually? Rubbery soft region?
	- _side note:_ how properties change in going from bulk system to thin film
- The definition of the boundary of your interface (where it begins and ends) depends on what property you are looking at and what polymer materials are involved.

_Side Note:_ Density changes over 1-10 nm but T_g changes over hundreds of nanometers. The reason is unknown.