

Difference surface energy and tension?

units: (energy/area) = (force/length)


**$\gamma$ surface energy. When is it positive or negative?**
- immiscible fluids: mixing them gives you an emulsion
	- system separates overtime if left undisturbed
	- flat interface with thickness forms
	- emulsion droplets are spherical in shape (smallest possible interface)

- Interfaces must cost energy, otherwise geometry of the interface would not tend to minimum energy configuration
- Where does interfacial tension come from. Why does it cost energy?
	- **Example 1 (Air-Water Interface):** Within the water, there are hydrogen bonds that cause the molecules to favorably associate with one another. However, molecules at the surface have less molecules to bond to. This creates tension.
	- **Example 2 (Impurities in Solids):** Let's say we have a silicon cube that has dimension of 1 cm on all sides.



$$
\rho=2.4 \frac{\mathrm{g}}{\mathrm{cm}^3}
$$

- mass of cube: $\mu=2.4 \mathrm{~g}$
-1 parts per million of impurity (ppm)
$-10^{-6}$ impurity $\rightarrow 2.4 \mu \mathrm{g}$
How much is this?
-Calculating the surface of the cube: $6 \mathrm{~cm}^2$
-- Assume density of impurity is $1 \frac{\mathrm{g}}{\mathrm{cm}^3}$
-- interface thickness 1 nm
$--\frac{\text { mass }}{\text { area }}=0.1 \frac{\mu g}{\mathrm{~cm}^2}$
-- Total Mass $=0.1 \frac{\mu g}{\mathrm{~cm}^2} \cdot 6 \mathrm{~cm}^2$
$--=0.6 \mu g$
So this small $10^{-6}$ impurity can still cover the entire surface area of the cube (with impurity still left over)


- **Example 3 (metal catalysts):** You want to make the surface area of the catalyst (powder form) as large as possible.



# Surface Roughness

- **Apparent area vs actual area:** For a solid surface, usually the surface area is much larger on the nanometer scale due to surface roughness
	- Why are solid interfaces not perfectly smooth like interfaces? 
		- The molecules in a solid are much less mobile compared to those in a liquid
		- The other reason has to do with energy and entropy: 
	- Examples: 
		- **Porous Surfaces:** Asphault and concrete are both porous surfaces, but on a different length scale (as evidenced by the difference in how quickly each surface will absorb water)
		- **Materials with Internal Surfaces:** For example, crystals have grain boundaries.
- **How do we measure surface roughness?**
	- Atomic Force Microscopy
	- CryoEM
	- Liquid Phase TM
	- Microscope
- **How do we quantify surface roughness?**



This gives you the average between the peak and valley values.

$$
R_a=\frac{1}{l_r} \int_0^{l_r}|z(x)| d x=\sqrt{\frac{1}{l_r} \int_0^{l_r}(z(x))^2 d x}
$$

- You could also measure the difference between peaks, but this wont be as averaged as $R_a$

==Check Notes==: The value from calculating the integral in both of the surfaces will be the same. So we need to have a measure of skewness to differentiate between the two different cases.



$$
R_{s k}=\frac{1}{R_a^3}\left[\frac{1}{l_r} \int_0^{l_r}(z(x))^3 d x\right]
$$


- Lotus leaves are an example of a surface that are extremely hydrophobic. If we have a surface that is extremely rough and has many nanometer sized bumps, then when water comes into contact with the surface, it is only able to come into contact with the peaks of the material on the surface. The valleys of the material remains free of water. In this scenario, you will get contact angles that are very large. Surface roughness, and chemistry combined are what can make a material super hydrophobic.
- If we have two smooth surfaces in contact with one another, then we can make the assumption that the have the full area in contact. If the surfaces are extremely rough, then we can assume that they make very little contact with one another.
- Contacting Surface Area: The total area over which two surfaces make contact with one another



**Where does surface roughness come from?**\

==See notes for sketch==
- Entropy: If we have one plane growing, there is only one possible arrangement for the configuration shown. For the second configuration, there are more microstates.
