
==Is this coming from a book?==
# 2.4 Interfacial Energy

- **Why do interfaces form?**
	- Stability of interface (from perspective of thermodynamics)
	- **"interfaces cost energy":** Surface Energy > Bulk
		- Droplets coalsesce over time
			- Why do small droplets combine to form large droplet? (surface area at fixed volume). Minimize surface energy
			- Volume to surface area ratio for sphere
			- $$
\begin{aligned}
&\begin{aligned}
& V_{\text {sphere }}=\frac{4}{3} \pi r^3 \\
& A_{\text {sphere }}=4 \pi r^2 \\
& \frac{V}{A}=\frac{1}{3} r
\end{aligned}\\
&\begin{aligned}
A & =6 a^2 \\
\frac{V}{A} & =\frac{1}{6} a
\end{aligned}
\end{aligned}
$$
- Solid objects don't spontaneously fall apart
- **Nucleation barrier** (another reason why surfaces cost energy)
	- Phase diagram for ice/water
		- what is **supercooling**
		- what makes supercooling possible
		- supercooling of water: hitting the bottle to immediately precipitate ice crystals
		- free energy as a function of the radius of a crystal in solution. Some positive energy contribution which is going to be proportional to $r^2$. An you'll have a negative contribution which is proportional to $E_{bulk}$ is proportional to $r^3$.
		- once we reach the **critical radius** ($r_c$) they begin to form crystals that span the entire space.
		- Why do we see peak in energy landscape


## Splitting Surfaces



- Material made of two different material, bound together by one interface
- If two materials are different, splitting it to form two interfaces (**work of adhesion**)
- If two materials are same, energy used to split them apart (**work of cohesion**)
- **Surface energy** ($\gamma$) is the amount of energy it takes to create some area of surface
	- **Units:** energy per unit area
- $W_{||}=2 \cdot \gamma_{s}$  
- Reversible in most liquids. 
- Irreversible in most solids
	- Why is it not reversible in solids?
		- bonds
		- quick oxidation of surfaces

### Air-Water interface


$$
\begin{aligned}
& \gamma_{\text {air-water }}=72 \frac{\mathrm{mJ}}{\mathrm{m}^2} \\
& \gamma_{\text {oil-water }}=50 \frac{\mathrm{mJ}}{\mathrm{m}^2}
\end{aligned}
$$


We need 72 mJ of energy to make one $m^2$ of surface. Units $\equiv$ $\frac{\text { energy }}{(\text { length })^2}=\frac{\text { Force } \cdot \text { Length }}{(\text { length })^2}=\frac{\text { Force }}{\text { Length }} \equiv$ surface tension $\left(\frac{N}{m}\right)$


- We have air-water interface system with Air (1 atm) and water(1 atm), isotropic. 1 atm is approx 1 bar which is approx $10^5$ Pa = $10^5$ N/m^2 (1J = 1 Pa m^3).
- The perpenducular pressure at the interface is 1 atm
- the parallel pressure = force/area=(force\length)(1/length). Say that the length is 1 nm. gamma air_water


$$
\begin{aligned}
& \gamma_{\text {air-water }} \cdot \frac{1}{1 \mathrm{~nm}} \\
& =72\left(\frac{\mathrm{mN}}{\mathrm{m}}\right)\left(\frac{1}{1 \mathrm{~nm}}\right)=72 \cdot \frac{10^{-3} \mathrm{~N}}{\mathrm{~m}} \cdot \frac{1}{10^{-9} \mathrm{~m}} \\
& =72 \cdot 10^6 \frac{\mathrm{N}}{\mathrm{m}^2}=720 \mathrm{~atm}
\end{aligned}
$$


- Why can dragon fly sit on surface of water? (surface tension)
	- Effect of adding soap, decreases surface energy

## Surface Composition

- Usually, surface composition differs from the bulk
	- Examples:
		- solutes
		- foreign species tend to segregate to surfaces
		- typically species will segregate from high energy surfaces to lower energy (high energy surface + foreign species -> lower energy surface). This is often spontaneous

### Example: Silicon Wafer

- in reality, surface composition can involve a lot of species: You have a silicon wafer. So the surface consists of silicon atoms. Oxidation will occur at the surface forming oxide layer on top of the silicon. The OH groups are hydrophilic, so water will adsorb to the surface from the air. Somehow, we get a layer of organic molecules. and the final layer is air (consisting mostly of nitrogen and oxygen)
- Clean Si water-oxygen plasma, nanostrip/piranha solution (sulfuric acid and hydrogen peroxide)


## Monolayer Coverage

- **Surfactant**
	- consists of ampiphilic molecule with hydrophilic head and hydrophobic tail (stearic acid)
	- Surfactants in air-water system. Hydrophobic tails will point towards air , and head will point toward water forming a **monolayer**.
	- Surfactants form monolayer
	- Critical micelle concentration- Concentration when micelles start to form
	- We need to know how much surfactant (e.g., stearic acid) to put into the system to form a monolayer

### Example 1

$$
\begin{aligned}
&\begin{aligned}
& \frac{\text { mass }}{\text { area }}=\frac{\text { mass }}{\text { volume }} \cdot(\text { interfacial thickness or interfacial height of molecule [which in this case are the same] }) \\
& \text { density water }=1 \mathrm{~g} / \mathrm{cm}^3 \\
& 1 \mathrm{~g} / \mathrm{cm}^3 \cdot 1 \mathrm{~nm} \approx 1 \frac{\mu \mathrm{g}}{\mathrm{cm}^2}
\end{aligned}\\
&\text { Take home message : You only need } 0.1 \mu \mathrm{g} \text { to cover } 1 \mathrm{~cm}^2 \text { of interface }
\end{aligned}
$$

### Example 2: Lipid Bilayers

- **Phospholipid**
	- Length of phospholipid (2 nm). Tail to tail distance (1 nm).
	- Why do lipids self-assemble into bilayers? The tails like to be in planes
	- lipids can be ordered differently
		- liquid-crystalline structure: Several different types
		- gel-like
		- liquid-disordered
	- What is the packing density of phospholipids?
		- Typically if we had 200 nm area there would be 600,000 lipids
		- 5 nm^2 area would be about 40, 000 lipids
		- roughtly 1.5 lipids per nm^2


