
[GPT Session](https://chatgpt.com/c/66e08558-86d4-8008-8a86-ecb5740c28e3)
# Surface Roughness
- Surfaces cost energy, meaning surfaces like to minimize surface area
- Not all surfaces are a smooth as they could be (concrete, asphault, etc). The reason for this is entropy.
- Entropy and energy are opposite, and what happens with the system with depend on the balance between these two
	- The system may not have time to settle in the perfect configuration
- Temperature also competes along with entropy in counteracting minimization of surface area.


# Surface Entropy
- ==See Fig #1==
- Entropy + Energy = Free Energy
	- We need a quantity that is measurable in the lab: temperature, pressure, chemical potential; there are all derivatives of free energy.
	- The goal is to minimize the free energy. This tells us what the system is actually going to do. This means we are balancing the energy and entropy components.
	- ==missed what she said here==
- **Entropy:** is the measure of the number of equivalent microstates that lead to the same macrostate. $s = k \cdot ln(\Omega)$ 
	- Example: Ideal gas in box
	- What is an ideal gas? A gas where we don't care about the interactions. We don't care about energy, and only care about entropy.
	- We have two gas particles in a box. ==she states problem here==. What would happen if we divide the system into two. We should expect have of the molecules to be on one side, and half to be on the other side. This is because they do not interact with each other, so there is nothing that favors one side or the other.
	- See ==figure 2==  _Get Help Here_
	- ==not sure what she said here==
	- A macrostate with more microstates is more likely to be observed.
	- There are 252 microstates that make the 50-50 macrostate.
- Example where entropy does not relate to disorder, and actually means the opposite.
	- ==Hard Spheres== - Colloids
		- You get a system with spheres that do not interact at all.
		- why does FCC crystal tend to form
		- Phase diagram $\phi = 0.55$. FCC crystal forms on right side. Why?
		- (disordered) -> (ordered structure)
			- This transition gives us more microstates (even though it is more ordered)
		- fcc volume fraction
		- entropy driven first-order phase transition


# Crystal Surface

- If we increase temperature, what happens if we increase temperature? It should melt (at melting temperature)
	- What happens before it reaches molten state?
		- roughening transition: you have enough kinetic energy, your surface is not smooth anymore and you have rough surface. It is some fraction below the melting temperature. ==0.5 - 0.7== $T_{m}$.
		- Can shift free energy by changing temperature


# 表面エネルギーの測定


- Typical values: what are typical values for surface temperature of liquids
	- air-water: 72 mJ / m^2
	- air-mercury: 476 mJ/m^2 higher surface temperature than air water. Surface temperature is so high that mercury rolls around on surfaces as beads
	- hexane-water 50
	- air-hexane 18
	- benzene-water 35
	- Interfacial Tension ($\gamma_{\alpha \beta}$) i.e., Interfacial Energy, between two phases.


# Measuring Surface Tension
- Contact Angles: Simplest way when you have no lab equipment
	- ==see Figure 4==
	- lowest cohesion, surface tension
	- air-liquid of interes-and solid (three solids)
	- there is equation that tells me what angle should be if you know surface tensions (Young's equation)
		- The total forces must be zero, because the drop is in equilibrium
		- Forces in the system:


## Wilhelmy Plate


- See figure ==5==


